[RHACS] ROX-20244: Adding Inviting users to RHACS documentation (#66457)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/configuring-access-control-and-sending-invitations.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * configuration/inviting-users-to-rhacs.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="configuring-access-control-and-sending-invitations_{context}"]
= Configuring access control and sending invitations

.Procedure

. To invite a user, use one of the following methods:
* In the {product-title-short} portal, navigate to *Platform Configuration -> Access Control -> Auth providers* tab, and then click *Invite users*.
* Navigate to your profile icon, and then click *Invite users*.

. In the *Invite users* dialog box, provide the following information:
* *Emails to invite*: Enter one or more email addresses of the users you want to invite. Ensure that they are valid email addresses associated with the intended recipients.

> * *Provider*: From the drop-down list, select a provider you want to use for each invited user. For {product-title-managed-short}, the default option is `Default Internal SSO`.

Reviewer: This is not quite accurate.

- If there is only one auth provider available, it will be pre-selected.
- If there is more than one auth provider available, and one of them is "Red Hat SSO" or "Default Internal SSO", that one will be preselected.
- If there is more than one auth provider available, and none are "Red Hat SSO" or "Default Internal SSO", then the user will have to select one.

Note: if no auth providers have been set up yet, then the user is shown a warning, the form is disabled, and there is a link to take the user over to the Access Control section where they can set up an auth provider.

* *Role*: From the drop-down list, select a role for each invited user.

. Click *Invite users*.

> . On the *Invite users* dialog box, click *Done.*
> . On the confirmation dialog box, click *Done.*

Reviewer: There is no second confirmation box; only one more screen after you click the Invite users button to take the action.

Also, there is no ability for ACS to send this type of transactional email at this time, so there needs to be a step before clicking Done, where the inviter copies the email address and a bolierplate message into their own email client to send to the invited users.

```suggestion
. When the confirmation that the users have been created with the selected role, copy the emails and the message into an email that you create in your own email client to send to the users.
. Click *Done.*
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * configuration/inviting-users-to-rhacs.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="configuring-access-control-and-sending-invitations_{context}"]
= Configuring access control and sending invitations

.Procedure

> . To invite a user, use one of the following methods:

Reviewer 2: Just because there are two ways of getting there doesn't mean that you have to tell users the available options. It's usually better to just pick one of them and go with that. I'd pick whichever one is easiest/more likely for people to use.

Author: @vjwilson any thoughts?

Reviewer: It's a toss-up about which is easier:
- if they've just added an auth provider to the system, then the button on the auth provider page is more obvious
- anytime they invite users after that, the option in the User Profile menu will be easier

In this case, I don't think there is an obvious one to choose, so I would leave both in the doc.

Author: @vjwilson Thanks and appreciate your suggestion. However, from a documentation perspective, we would take a minimalist approach by documenting the happy path that is most obvious and easiest for the customer. 
Would you consider it appropriate to document only the path where the customer navigates to the *Platform Configuration - Access Control - Auth providers* tab and then clicks on *Invite users* since it is very obvious that the customer would create an authentication provider?

Reviewer: I respectfully disagree with the docs teams heuristic in this case, but if you simply cannot bend from that rule, then your choice is as good as the other one.

Author: Thank you for sharing your perspective. I highly value your input, and feedback is highly appreciated.

* In the {product-title-short} portal, navigate to *Platform Configuration -> Access Control -> Auth providers* tab, and then click *Invite users*.

> * Navigate to your profile icon, and then click *Invite users*.

Reviewer 2: Is this one from the RHACS portal too?

Author: yup

. In the *Invite users* dialog box, provide the following information:

> * *Emails to invite*: Enter one or more email addresses of the users you wa

Reviewer: It looks like the second part of this bullet point got cut short during editing.

I went back to an earlier commit on the PR and found what the complete point was--this looks correct.
```suggestion
* *Emails to invite*: Enter one or more email addresses of the users you want to invite. Ensure that they are valid email addresses associated with the intended recipients.```

* *Provider*: From the drop-down list, select a provider you want to use for each invited user.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
* If you have only one authentication provider available, it is selected by default.
* If multiple authentication providers are available and at least one of them is `Red Hat SSO` or `Default Internal SSO`, that provider is selected by default.
* If multiple authentication providers are available, but none of them is `Red Hat SSO` or `Default Internal SSO`, you are prompted to select one manually.
* If you have not yet set up authentication providers, you will receive a warning message; the form will be disabled and you will receive a link that takes you to the *Access Control* section where you can configure an authentication provider.
====

> * *Role*: From the drop-down list, select a role for each invited user.

Reviewer: nit: I can see how this may be confusing, in that you could infer that you could select a _different_ role for *each* invited user. But in fact, all invited users must be invited to the _same_ role.

Am I being too literal? (I am paranoid sometimes.)

Possible suggestion to make it more clear:
```suggestion
* *Role*: From the drop-down list, select the role all the invited users will be assigned.
```

> * If you have not yet set up authentication providers, you will receive a warning message; the form will be disabled and you will receive a link that takes you to the *Access Control* section where you can configure an authentication provider.

Reviewer 2: I'd remove the semi-colon. I think you could keep these as separate sentences.
Try to remove future tense
Some other suggestions to consider

```suggestion
* If you have not yet set up an authentication provider, a warning message appears and the form is disabled. Click the link, which takes you to the *Access Control* section to configure an authentication provider.
```

. Click *Invite users*.

> . When you receive confirmation that the users have been created with the selected role, copy the one or more email addresses and the message into an email that you create in your own email client, and send it to the users.

Reviewer 2: It's not clear to me where/how they receive confirmation. Is it right in the UI, or somewhere else? Does it take a significant amount of time to wait, or is it instantaneous?

Also, where do they get "the message" they are supposed to copy? Is that displayed in the UI after they have clicked "invite users"?

* If they have to wait a bit, then I'd break this up into two steps. first of waiting, and then second about copying/sending
* If it's relatively instantaneous, then I'd remove that first part of the sentence and replace it with something more basic like telling them where to get the message to copy and send.

Author: > It's not clear to me where/how they receive confirmation. Is it right in the UI, or somewhere else? Does it take a significant amount of time to wait, or is it instantaneous?
> 
> Also, where do they get "the message" they are supposed to copy? Is that displayed in the UI after they have clicked "invite users"?
It is displayed on the confirmation dialog box at the UI. 
> 
> * If they have to wait a bit, then I'd break this up into two steps. first of waiting, and then second about copying/sending
> * If it's relatively instantaneous, then I'd remove that first part of the sentence and replace it with something more basic like telling them where to get the message to copy and send.

@vjwilson can we re-write the steps to: 
. Click *Invite users*.
. On the confirmation dialog box, you see a message that the users have been created with the selected role.
. Copy the one or more email addresses and the message into an email that you create in your own email client, and send it to the users.
. Click *Done*.

Also, like Andrea mentioned if the user clicked on "Done" before copying the email addresses, what would happen?

Reviewer: 1. What you suggest for the re-writing the steps is fine by me.
2. If the user closes the dialog before copying the information presented, they can't get back to it. The users have still been added to the system, and they can still send an email manually--they just have to enter the emails and type the message themselves by hand.

This feature is a stop-gap measure to make it easier for cloud and trial customers to start using the system, but we are not trying to build a complete user-management system.

> . When you receive confirmation that the users have been created with the selected role, copy the one or more email addresses and the message into an email that you create in your own email client, and send it to the users.

Reviewer 2: Also, the wording with "one or more" sounds odd here. 

Recommend: "copy the email addresses and message"

> . Click *Done*.

Reviewer 2: What if they clicked done here but forgot to copy that message to send to their users? Does that message contain critical information for users on how to access the cluster?

If so, might be worthwhile adding some troubleshooting info on how to get back to this if needed

.Verification

> . In the {product-title-short} portal, navigate to *Platform Configuration -> Access Control -> Auth providers* tab.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In the {product-title-short} portal, navigate to the *Platform Configuration -> Access Control -> Auth providers* tab.
```

> . Select the authentication provider you used to invite one or more users.

Reviewer 2: Even though it could be "one or more" I don't think you need to specify that anymore. I think you can just generically say "users" now. Here in this step and in step 4 of verification.

```suggestion
. Select the authentication provider you used to invite users.
```

. Scroll down to the *Rules* section.

> . Verify that one or more user emails and authentication provider roles have been added to the list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Verify that the user emails and authentication provider roles have been added to the list.
```
